LANGUAGE HAS ALWAYS BEEN a key battleground in the nationalist attempts at decolonization especially in Southeast Asia. In the case of the Philippines the legacy of American colonial education included the use of English as a medium of instruction. Learning
English however required that native students suppress their vernacular languages. The
classroom thus became the site for a kind of linguistic war or better yet the war of translation. The postwar nationalist response has been to denounce the hegemony of English
as a morbid symptom of colonial mentality whose continued use would doom native
culture and kill the emergent Filipino nation. Yet as I argue in this essay such a critique
rested on the colonial assumptions about the sheer instrumentality of language. Nationalism like colonialism was tied to the ideology that translation was a means for the
speaker to assert his or her will to dominate speech whether one’s own or that of the
other. This view tended to set aside the historical reality whereby non colonial and nonnationalist practices of translation flourished. Such practices were predicated on the play
rather than on the domination of language. I examine how such possibilities emerged
both in the resistant soundings of English on the part of native students in the classrooms
and in the emergence of Tagalog slang during the 1960s and 1970s in the streets. Formed
from the woven fragments of vernacular languages creole Spanish and American
English Tagalog slang gives us an alternative understanding of the role of translation
in democratizing expression in a postcolonial context.
In an attempt to pacify Filipinos during the Philippine American War 1899–
1902 the United States established a network of public schools all over the archipelago.
The military governor General Arthur MacArthur thought that the schools would have a
counterinsurgent effect. They would serve as adjuncts to military operations needed to
expedite the restoration of tranquility throughout the archipelago.
American soldiers
were initially assigned to serve as teachers. They were shortly followed by an army of
American civilian teachers known as the Thomasites named after the USS Thomas
the army transport that brought them to the country in 1901. By the 1920s however
most American teachers had been replaced by Filipinos as part of a larger effort to Filipinize the colonial government en route to granting the colony eventual independence.2
The key feature of the colonial public school system was the adoption of English as
the sole medium of instruction. Given the considerable linguistic diversity of the archipelago where more than eighty mutually unintelligible languages continued to be
spoken combined with the unevenness of knowledge of Spanish whereby only about
5 percent of the population claimed to be fluent despite 350 years of Spanish rule American policy makers deemed it necessary to use English as the dominant language of rule
and education. Within weeks of the occupation of Manila on August 13 1898 the U.S.
military reopened several schools in the city assigning from among its ranks a teacher of
English to each of them. By January of 1901 the colonial civilian government passed a
law known as Act 74 that established the Bureau of Education.
