WHY THE FUCK DO PEOPLE STILL SERIOUSLY ASK THIS QUESTION.

I don't get it. Spend ten seconds on google and you get an answer to this insanely simple question. Like a high school biology student should be able to figure this one out.

If I descended from my grandparents why do my cousins exist It's the same damn question. We didn't evolve from monkeys we share a common answer with them and even if we did evolve directly from modern day monkeys we didn't that wouldn't necessitate their entire population going extinct or becoming human.

The people who ask this question never bother to actual do any research and try to learn how evolution works but they think they can while wholly ignorant of the science debunk the most effective the most well understood theory of biology for the past 150+ years Seriously

What's worse is that this moronic question is always framed like a fucking gotcha. How the fuck is a question that any half competent person could confidently answer a gotcha question How are creationists incapable of realizing that this is an incredibly poor question to ask evolutionists Or even just ask regular people who didn't flunk biology

Creationists make no sense to me at all. Not only because the premise of their argument is fucking stupid earth is 6000 years old fucking really but also because they always repeat the same tired debunked arguments over and over and over again and do nothing but show abject ignorance in all the sciences and a complete refusal to do any research or actually learn something.

Swear to god if I hear another creationist ask this fucking question I might scream.

5 6 years ago I had a big gap of unemployment but I was waiting on something that was going to be the most I’ve ever made per hour. I racked up a lot of credit card debt in anticipation for this job. Well that job didn’t work out they laid off the entire shift a few months after I started. The interest rate at the time I borrowed the money was somewhere around 12 13 now through no fault of my own the federal government gets to decide to raise my interest rate and effectively increase the amount of money I owe. Imagine buying a car for $20000 and then the dealership calls you a year later and says sorry now that car is $40000. I just fucking hate that our government is allowed to fuck us in the ass and we’re powerless against it. I make a $280 payment and get hit with $170 interest charge every month and it’s fucking killing me.

I’m looking into ways to pay off this debt and it’s all the same useless advice. Don’t spend more than you make. No shit. Pay off your balance each month. How does that help me with $12000 of debt! Transfer your balance to a different card. I tried this and if you aren’t aggressive enough with your payments then you’ll just end up with EVEN MORE debt because the 0 interest card is now 30.
