1. Create a Python program that:

a. helps you to accomplish a linguistic task related to your area of interest
b. requires you to draw on programming skills learned in this class
c. but also, importantly, stretches your programming ability
d. contains detailed comments

2. Post a screencast video:

a. 8-10 minute oral presentation of your project with:

i. a clear explanation of the linguistic problem or question you set out to answer and your reason for doing so (one slide)
ii. a clear explanation of the logic of your program and the data structures and functions used (one slide)
iii. an explanation of the challenges you faced and the stretching that your programming skills had to go through in order to complete the project (one slide)
iv. a short explanation of the (main) result of your project; how can the research question be answered or the problem solved? (one slide)

3. Turn into the CMS:

a. Your Python script or scripts (one or more .py files)
b. Relevant output from your program (if it cannot be reproduced by the script)
c. 900-1,200 word write-up that addresses at least the following:

i. What did you set out to accomplish and why?
ii. What were the various steps you took to accomplish your goal?
iii. What challenges did you run into and how did you overcome them?
iv. What have you learned in this class that (a) helped you with your final project and (b) will/might help you in your future?
v. Include a word count at the end of the document.

There is no final exam in this class. Rather, we will use the final exam period for students to post a video or narrated PowerPoint to the CMS (see schedule for due date) and for students to watch and respond to at least 5 presentations of classmates.

Write a 500-700 word proposal for your final project. Answer at least the following questions:
1. What do you want to accomplish and why? How will this help you develop the programming skills you might need in the future?
2. What data will you use?
3. What is your plan to carry out this project? How will you get the data? How will you accomplish the programming tasks? How will you ensure and measure accuracy?
4. What programming skills and Python data structures will you need for this project?