https://www.r-bloggers.com/
Data analytics and programming don’t often have a lot of things in common. But where they’re almost indistinguishable is the topic of dates. The skill of working with datetimes is an integral part of both areas and is something you’ll want to master sooner rather than later. ...
The Need for Speed in RIn the realm of data science, where the landscape is ever-changing and data volumes are incessantly swelling, speed and efficiency in processing aren’t mere conveniences — they’re indispensable. As we unveil the second chapter of our series, we turn the spotlight onto a crucial ...
Discovering 18th century London with new fonts
Greetings, humanists, social and data scientists!
In this lesson, we delve into the world of data visualization with a focus on the use of different fonts in ggplot2. We are going to learn how to t...
SatRdays is returning to London on 27th April 2024! We’re collaborating once again with CUSP London to bring SatRdays to the amazing Bush House venue, and we can’t wait to see you there. More information will be released in the coming...
As the reliance on data intensifies, the need for efficient and effective data analysis methods has never been greater. This article delves into the world of functional programming in R, a paradigm that offers a refreshing and powerful way to handle data analysis tasks. We will compare functional programming techniques ...
Harnessing the coastal winds – CC-BY-NC-ND by Wayne S. Grazio
Day 14 of 30DayMapChallenge: « Europe » (previously).
Using data from Eurostat we will try to show the spatio-temporal properties of this dataset by placing plots o...
Introduction
Regression models are a powerful tool for predicting future values based on historical data. They are used in a wide range of industries, including finance, healthcare, and marketing. In this blog post, we will learn how to predict ... [Read more...]
R Consortium recently talked to Sam Parmar of the Indy UseR group about using R in public health and pharma in Indianapolis. Sam also spoke about his volunteer work with...
The post Dive Into R: Collaborate with the Indy UserR Group as a Newsletter Contributor! appeared first on R Consortium.
Vineyards in Burgundy – CC-BY-ND by x1klima
Day 13 of 30DayMapChallenge: « Choropleth » (previously).
Using the French 2020 census to map the specialization of agricultural production by commune.
library(tidyverse)
library(sf...
Introduction
Prediction intervals are a powerful tool for understanding the uncertainty of your predictions. They allow you to specify a range of values within which you are confident that the true value will fall. This can be useful for many ta...
New arXiv working paper showing how generalized linear mixed effects model (GLMM) trees, along with their R implementation in the glmertree package, can be used to identify subgroups with differently shaped trajectories in linear growth curve...
I had thought most folks likely knew this already, but if you are user of RStudio dailies (this may apply to regular RStudio, but I only use the dailies) and are missing ligatures in the editor (for some fonts), the “fix” is pretty simple (some misguided folks think ligatures are ... [Read more...]
Piedra de Culimacare on the Rio Casiquiare – CC-BY-NC-ND by Carsten ten Brink
Day 12 of 30DayMapChallenge: « South America » (previously).
Do you know you can circumnavigate the Guiana shield? There is a river, the Rio Casiqui...
